Service registry RHOAS CLI (#324)
redhat-developer/app-services-guides: rhoas-cli-service-registry/README.adoc

* link:{base-url}{rhoas-cli-service-registry-url}#creating-service-registry-account_getting-started-rhoas-service-registry[Create a service account]

* link:{base-url}{rhoas-cli-service-registry-url}#uploading-service-registry-artifacts_getting-started-rhoas-service-registry[Upload Service Registry artifacts]

* link:{base-url}{rhoas-cli-service-registry-url}#downloading-service-registry-artifacts_getting-started-rhoas-service-registry[Download Service Registry artifacts]

== Prerequisites

* You've installed the `rhoas` CLI. For more information, see {base-url}{rhoas-cli-url}[_Installing the rhoas CLI_^].

//Additional line break to resolve mod docs generation error

[id="proc-creating-service-registry-instance_{context}"]
== Creating a Service Registry instance

A Service Registry instance serves as a central location for storing artifacts.

.Prerequisites

* You are logged in to `rhoas`.

.Procedure

. Enter the following command to create a Service Registry instance with default values.
+
--
This example creates a Service Registry instance called `my-registry`.

.Creating a Service Registry instance
[source,shell]
----
$ rhoas service-registry create --name my-registry

> Creating Service Registry instance with name: my-registry

Author: Verify message slightly different to Kafka instance creation

✔️ Successfully created Service Registry instance
{
  "browserUrl": "https://console.redhat.com/beta/application-services/service-registry/t/63620903-4a29-4ba4-8229-7ab793bf73f3",
  "created_at": "2021-09-27T15:35:01Z",
  "href": "/api/serviceregistry_mgmt/v1/registries/63620903-4a29-4ba4-8229-7ab793bf73f3",
  "id": "63620903-4a29-4ba4-8229-7ab793bf73f3",
  "instance_type": "eval",
  "kind": "ServiceRegistry",
  "name": "my-registry",
  "owner": "User",
  "status": "accepted",

>   "updated_at": "2021-09-27T15:35:01Z"

Author: No region?

Reviewer: No. SR is multitenant

.Creating a service account
[source,shell]
----
$ rhoas service-account create --name "my-service-acct" --file-format json

Service account my-service-account created
Credentials saved to /home/developer/my-project/credentials.json
----

Your service account credentials are created and saved to a JSON file.

[NOTE]
====
When creating a service account, you can choose the file format and location to save the credentials.
For more information, see the `rhoas service-account create` command help.
====
--

. To verify your service account credentials,
view the `credentials.json` file that you created.
+
--
.Verifying service account credentials
[source,shell]
----
$ cat credentials.json
{
	"clientID":"srvc-acct-8c95ca5e1225-94a-41f1-ab97-aacf3df1",
	"clientSecret":"facf3df1-ab97-2253-aa87-ab97",
  "oauth_token_url": "https://identity.api.openshift.com/auth/realms/rhoas/protocol/openid-connect/token"
}
----
You'll use these credentials and the Service Registry URL to connect your applications and services to your Service Registry instance.

[NOTE]
====
You can use the `rhoas` CLI to manage artifacts without a service account.

> By connecting your applications to your Service Registry instance, you can retrieve artifacts and use them directly in your service.

Author: Not sure about this note. Can we be clearer?

Reviewer: Very good point. Makes no sense in this sentence.

```suggestion
By connecting your applications to your Service Registry instance, you can retrieve artifacts and use them directly in your service.
```

which you can use to authenticate your application with your Service Registry instance.

.Prerequisites

* You have created a Service Registry instance, and it has a `ready` status.

.Procedure

. Enter the following command to create a service account.
+
--
This example creates a service account called `my-service-acct` and saves the credentials in a JSON file.

.Creating a service account
[source,shell]
----
$ rhoas service-account create --name "my-service-acct" --file-format json

Service account my-service-account created
Credentials saved to /home/developer/my-project/credentials.json
----

Your service account credentials are created and saved to a JSON file.

[NOTE]
====
When creating a service account, you can choose the file format and location to save the credentials.
For more information, see the `rhoas service-account create` command help.
====
--

. To verify your service account credentials,
view the `credentials.json` file that you created.
+
--
.Verifying service account credentials
[source,shell]
----
$ cat credentials.json
{
	"clientID":"srvc-acct-8c95ca5e1225-94a-41f1-ab97-aacf3df1",
	"clientSecret":"facf3df1-ab97-2253-aa87-ab97",

>   "oauth_token_url": "https://identity.api.openshift.com/auth/realms/rhoas/protocol/openid-connect/token"

Author: Just service registry with oauth? Not Kafka?

Reviewer: Good catch! Not sure why we even print those outputs, but let's leave them - I tried to replicate what kafka had

      "state": "ENABLED",
      "type": "AVRO",
      "version": "1"
    }
  ]
}
----

.Checking the metadata information of an artifact
[source,shell]
----
rhoas service-registry artifact metadata-get --artifact-id=my-artifact
Using default artifacts group.
Fetching artifact metadata
✔️ Successfully fetched artifact metadata
{
  "contentId": 29,
  "createdBy": "User",
  "createdOn": "2021-09-27T16:17:35+0000",
  "globalId": 28,
  "id": "my-artifact",
  "modifiedBy": "User",
  "modifiedOn": "2021-09-27T16:17:35+0000",
  "state": "ENABLED",
  "type": "AVRO",
  "version": "1"
}
----

[NOTE]
====
You can use additional options, such as `--group`, `--version`, and  `--description`, to modify the metadata of the artifact you're creating.
For more information about any of the options, view the command help `rhoas service-registry artifact metadata-set -h`.
====
--

[id="proc-downloading-service-registry-artifacts_{context}"]
== Downloading Service Registry artifacts

[role="_abstract"]
After registering Service Registry artifacts, you can download them to make updates.

.Prerequisites

* You have created a Service Registry instance with at least one artifact.

.Procedure

> * Download the artifact by specifying its ID or global ID.

Author: Shall we explain why we would use one ID over the other? (Not sure)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Download the artifact by specifying Artifact ID that we specified when creating artifact
* Download the artifact by specifying Global ID retrieved from Kafka Message payload
```

* You have created a Service Registry instance, and it has a `ready` status.

[NOTE]
====

> You can use `rhoas` to switch to a specific Service Registry instance.

Reviewer: `rhoas` => `rhoas service-registry use`
